docs: [class-methods-use-this] explain purpose of rule (#20008)
eslint/eslint: docs/src/rules/class-methods-use-this.md

- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes/static
---

> [Classes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes) are often used to encapsulate reusable logic, especially stateful logic, into an object, where each instance's state is accessed via `this`. When an API is written with an instance method, it signals to consumers:

Reviewer: [Readability] This is a lot of commas. I had a hard time keeping track of which clause applied to what.

```suggestion
[Classes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes) are often used to encapsulate reusable logic, especially stateful logic, into an object where each instance's state is accessed via `this`. When an API is written with an instance method, it signals to consumers:
```

- The method's outcome is related to the object on which it's invoked, including possibly its state.

	```js
	const array1 = [1, 2, 3];
	const array2 = [4, 5, 6];

    // Using the `includes()` method on different objects gives different results:
	array1.includes(1); // true
	array2.includes(1); // false

	// Modifying the state of an object may change the outcome of its instance methods:
	array2.push(1);
	array2.includes(1); // true
	```

- The method doesn't make sense to be used without an associated object. (For example, it doesn't make sense to call `Array#includes()` without an array to operate on.)

If a class instance method does not use `this`, that normally means that it does not access any instance state and therefore doesn't need to be a method.
Therefore, it can *sometimes* be refactored into an [ordinary function](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions) or a [static method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes/static), which may better communicate intent to users of the API.

> It's possible to have a class method which doesn't use `this`, such as:

Reviewer: [Flow] The preceding paragraph says _"If a class method does not use `this`, ..."_. That assumes the reader understands such a thing is possible. But this paragraph is what first introduces the concept of a method not including `this`!

Proposal: move this _"It's possible..."_ sentence & its `class Person` code block to before the _"If a class instance..."_ paragraph.

```js
class Person {
    sayHi() {
        console.log("Hi!");
    }
}

const person = new Person();
person.sayHi(); // => "Hi!"
```

In the example above, the `sayHi` method doesn't use `this`, so we can make it an ordinary function:

```js
// Ordinary function
function sayHi() {
	console.log("Hi!");
}

// No need for `Person` class or any instance thereof
sayHi(); // => "Hi!"

// Alternately, a static method may be used if it offers a more natural API
class Person {
    static sayHi() {
        console.log("Hi!");
    }
}

Person.sayHi(); // => "Hi!"

// Keep in mind that, either way, the following now throws an error,
// since sayHi() is no longer an instance method!
//
// const person = new Person();
// person.sayHi();
```

> Of course, it's also possible the author simply forgot to use some piece of instance data that they intended to include.

Reviewer: [Approachability] We don't want to imply this is obvious ("of course") or a dumb/silly mistake ("simply"):

```suggestion
It's also possible the author forgot to use some piece of instance data that they intended to include.
```

- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes/static
---

[Classes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes) are often used to encapsulate reusable logic, especially stateful logic, into an object, where each instance's state is accessed via `this`. When an API is written with an instance method, it signals to consumers:

- The method's outcome is related to the object on which it's invoked, including possibly its state.

	```js
	const array1 = [1, 2, 3];
	const array2 = [4, 5, 6];

    // Using the `includes()` method on different objects gives different results:
	array1.includes(1); // true
	array2.includes(1); // false

	// Modifying the state of an object may change the outcome of its instance methods:
	array2.push(1);
	array2.includes(1); // true
	```

- The method doesn't make sense to be used without an associated object. (For example, it doesn't make sense to call `Array#includes()` without an array to operate on.)

> If a class instance method does not use `this`, that normally means that it does not access any information or state about its instance, meaning its outcome is not tied to the object on which it is invoked, and it might even make sense to invoke without any object at all.

Reviewer 2: This was a bit wordy, so tried editing it down.
```suggestion
If a class instance method does not use `this`, that normally means that it does not access any instance state and therefore doesn't need to be a method.
```

Therefore, it can *sometimes* be refactored into an [ordinary function](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Functions) or a [static method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Classes/static), which may better communicate intent to users of the API.

> Be aware that if you do convert the method into a function, this will require _all_ existing usages of the instance method to update to the new API, which is often a breaking change.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what this paragraph is meant to communicate. Converting a method into a function means necessarily means refactoring, which to me goes without saying. I'm also not sure why this might be a breaking change. Breaking changes are only relevant for public-facing APIs and I don't think we should assume that's what the user is doing.

I think we can probably just delete this paragraph.

Reviewer 2: I'd say let's just delete it. I get your point, I just think it's too nuanced to include in the docs (that most people just lightly skim).

```

:::

## When Not To Use It

Fixing violations of this rule almost always is a breaking change, since it requires a change at every usage of the affected method.

> Therefore, if your project has downstream consumers you cannot break, or you simply do not wish to make invasive changes to every call site of a method, it likely does not make sense to address violations of this rule.

Reviewer: [Approachability] Similarly here, it's not often a "simple" choice. That word doesn't add any meaning either:

```suggestion
Therefore, if your project has downstream consumers you cannot break, or you do not wish to make invasive changes to every call site of a method, it likely does not make sense to address violations of this rule.
```
